Okay. So let's take a look at the codes.
On the left side, you can see the structure of the product code,
on the right side, you can see
Visual Studio Code with all the files that make up this project here.
Let's start with a main function first.
So the first block is to create and connect intersections and streets.
As I said before,
we have several objects which are intersections,
streets and vehicles and,
they are all derived from a common class called traffic objects.
Before we look into traffic objects,
let's take a look at the main function first.
So part one, consists of setting up
the different traffic objects and as you can see here,
we are not using row pointers in this project here.
It's not bad style but it's a little bit outdated nowadays since the introduction of
share pointers with C++ 11 and this is why
we are defining all the objects as share pointers here.
So what we are doing,
we're defining a vector of shared pointers to street objects,
intersection objects, and vehicle objects,
and we are also defining a string to
a background image because the simulation as you have seen in the video until now,
has a nice city blog image in the background and
the visualization of the vehicles moving
along the streets is performed on top of the background image.
That's happening here.
Here comes the first task by the way,
to vary the number of vehicles assimilate,
but this is going to be task number 1.3,
so let's wait for this a little bit,
but currently the number of vehicles
which is going to be assimilated as going to be four.
Here, we call a function called Create traffic objects and we pass to its streets,
intersections, vehicles, the background image,
and the number of vehicles.
The basic idea is to connect everything in a way that
the simulation can run properly with everything connected to each other.
Please, note that up to this point,
we do not have any concurrency heads all,
old-fashioned linear programming one step after the next.
Concurrency is coming up very soon, but for now,
it's all linear programming creating traffic options.
Let's open up this function here, Create traffic objects.
I'm not going through this in too much detail,
we have a look at it in a quiet moment so to speak.
It's a lot of code here,
but it's basically meant to setup everything to be run properly.
So what we have here we are simulating a traffic scene in New York City,
that's why we're loading this traffic image here,
we have six intersections,
we are pushing those intersections into a vector.
It's the vector of shared pointers which you can see here,
so we're instantiating an instance of intersection here, making it shared,
and then pushing it into the vector here,
then we are setting the positions of
the intersections in pixel coordinates on the background image.
I did this by using Photoshop and my mouse to find out the proper location
of the intersections on the map and then we are creating the streets.
The streets are also pushed into the vector by making them shared, share pointers.
Then here, in this lengthy block of code,
every street gets an in intersection and an out intersection.
So every street has an intersection,
at each end, there's no street which simply ends in the middle of no where.
When a street ends in an intersection where no other streets are incoming,
this is considered a turnaround location.
So when an intersection is reached where the only way
out is the same street from which the vehicle came from,
it's simply going to drive back.
That's happening here connecting all the intersections by streets.
Okay. Then we are adding the vehicles to the streets,
we are assigning some members here.
So a vehicle gets the current street and the current destination,
it has to be on a particular street and it has to drive towards a particular destination.
That's our setup here.
That's the end of this setup function
here which creates the traffic objects. Now back to main.
In main, the next thing we do is we enter up part two which is
to simulate the traffic objects and if you take a look on the left side,
to left side again, there's a setting up
of the traffic objects is basically meant by this block here,
add streets and target intersections to
vehicles which we have seen in the previous minutes.
Now, we get to this part here which is about simulating the vehicles.
Before we take a look at this part here,
you see a loop here which loops over
all the shared pointers in our vector and calls a function called simulate.
Before we look into the vehicle class,
let's take a look at this shared class here,
it's called traffic object.
Let's open up the header file here.
What you can see is we have different types of objects,
we have vehicles, intersections, and streets,
which is important later on when we visualize everything,
but for now, it's not that important.
But here comes the class definition.
We have a constructor destructor,
some getter and setter functions for adjusting member,
member variables, then we have this section here called typical behavior methods.
This section is always there with all classes and it
basically describes the specialties of this particular class.
In this case, it's a simulate function which is defined as virtual,
that means it can be overwritten by classes which
are derived from traffic object and basically,
they can implement their own flavor of this simulation function in
the base implementation as you can see here by
the empty code records traffic objects do nothing in terms of simulating,
but in a vehicle that gets a vehicles for example as we'll see in a few seconds,
they are doing quite a lot here in this function.
Okay. In the protected area,
we have some variables, we have an ID,
we have a position on the background image in X and Y,
and we also have a vector of threads which
is one of the tasks you will have to complete in this lesson project here.
It basically holds all the threads that have been launched within this object.
At the bottom here, we have a private function which is only valid for
traffic object and not even valid for derive functions, its an ID counter.
So the basic idea is every time we instantiate
an object which is
either directly a traffic object or has been derived from a traffic object,
the ID counter gets incremented by one.
So we don't have to worry about counting IDs and we ensure that every object has
its own unique number that identifies only this object which is
never going to be given away a second time.
Every object has its own unique counting variable and that by making them static,
we ensure that this variable here is independent of instances of traffic object.
If you look into the student file of traffic object there's not much happening here.
The only thing of interest which is coming up as task
L1.1 is that it's your job here to set
up a thread barrier that ensures that all the thread
objects in the member vector _threads which we just saw,
are joined before the traffic object is destroyed.
Okay. Let's move back to main.
In main, we are now calling up the simulate function
of vehicles and in order to see what's happening there,
let's open up the "Vehicle.h" header and again as you can see here,
we have some getters and setters.
As before, set current streets, set current destination,
and also we are overwriting now
the simulate function which is defined as virtual in the base class traffic object.
Also this miscellaneous thing here.
The problem we have is we are only using shared pointers here and with shared pointers,
if you want to pass pointer to an object of a class itself,
usually with conventional C++,
you would use this keyword for this.
But you cannot do this with shared pointers,
and this is why we have to add a few things here which is this line
which basically returns a pointer, gets shared.
This and in order to enable
the class to actually return a pointer to an instance of an object of itself,
we have to add this one here which is an able shared from
this template instantiated with or adapted to a vehicle object.
It's a bit cumbersome to do this,
a bit of boilerplate code but it's a way to enable us to pass this as pointer.
As we will see later on, we have to pass a pointers to instances of
traffic or vehicle from within the class and this is the way to do it.
It's a bit lengthy but maybe
you should read up on this concept as well to get a bit more used to it.
But it's important for us later on.
So the private method,
it's also a typical behavior method but it cannot be called from externally,.
Is drive, the vehicle drives along a street.
So we have a quite lengthy implementation here which is an infinite loop which
we will see shortly which manages all the driving behavior of the vehicle.
Then we have some private member functions,
a shared pointer to the current street.
The vehicle is on, the current destination the vehicle drives towards to
and also the position and the current speed of the vehicle.
Now let's take a look at the implementation of vehicle. Let's start from the top.
We have a constructor which initializes for example the speed.
To be honest, the vehicles are quite fast here.
I mean 400 meters per second,
I know, it's a lot.
But nonetheless, when you are driving towards let's say the Arc de Triomphe in
Paris and you don't want to wait 10 minutes to get down this street or one minute maybe,
we have to speed up things a little bit and this is why
our cars are driving along and this insane speed.
Luckily we don't have any air resistance,
so there's not going to be much friction here.
So I don't know if it's physically feasible but nonetheless it's pretty fast.
Make it smaller if you want to.
For my demos here,
it's going to remain at 400 meters per second.
So set current destination and then
comes the simulate function which is actually your second task.
The idea here is for you to start up a thread
with a member function drive and the object of this we
just talked about it which comes in this neat package of the shared pointer.
Wrap-around and you should pass the object as the launch parameters to the threat.
Once this is done, please add the creative thread
into the underscore thread vector of the parent class which is traffic object.
That's your second job here.
This is the actual drive function.
Now let's take a look at the left-hand side again,
this is vehicle drive.
The first thing we do is after printing out the current thread ID,
actually it makes sense to observe the console output because what this line here does,
it gives you a unique system thread ID of each thread which is running as a vehicle,
and by looking at threat ideas and comparing them you can see whether they
are really implemented in parallel and concurrent manner.
Because actually the threat IDs should all be different here.
So take a look especially as we will later change the way
how threads are called using async which is task-based instead,
and this thread ID is an indicator of how the system has chosen to execute a thread.
Then we are initializing some variables and we're also initializing the stopwatch here
which corresponds to this box here and then we enter on the infinite while loop,
which is this long loop here on the left-hand side.
This line here, putting this thread to sleep for one millisecond.
This is really important.
Maybe you recall the example from the first lesson where I wrote
this dummy program which executed four threads in parallel
and then we looked at the task manager to see that it actually burned up
400 percent of CPU power.
This happens because we do not have a wait function inside a while loop.
By introducing this very small wait function,
we ensure that this burning up of the processor does not happen,
because nowadays computers are so fast,
they can really race through an infinite while loop so fast.
It's using up so much processing power.
You can't imagine how often it is executed.
It's beyond below the nanosecond scale,
and this is why we are introducing this waiting function here
to significantly reduce the load on the processor.
Just for the fun of it,
you can remove this line here and simply command it out and observe
the CPU load of the program here with and without this line included.
Just to get an impression.
Then what we do here is we compute
the time difference to the stopwatch which happens here
and once the time since the last update is larger than the cycle duration,
the duration is currently set to one milliseconds.
So every millisecond, we want to recompute an update of the vehicle position.
You can simply change this to 10 milliseconds or if you want to do 30 hertz,
you could go to a 33 milliseconds just like this by adapting this value.
You can simply change the updating frequency of the vehicle positions.
What we are doing here, and these lengthy lines of code here.
This is basically checking whether the vehicle has reached the end of the street.
We are updating the vehicle position on the street and then
we are checking if the vehicles which the end of the street.
So what happens here is we are updating
the position that has been driven since the last update,
its constant velocity motion model which is applied here.
We compute the completion rate of current street in the range from zero to one.
Zero is just started,
one 1.0 means it has reached the end of the street.
We are transferring this to pixel positions based on
the current driving direction because we want to update
the proper position on the background image.
Actually this line here,
this lengthy block of code here,
what you can see here XV and YV, this is a line,
a form of the line equation which takes a starting point X1 and
Y1 and then I parameter the completion rate which points into a certain direction.
This is a unit vector here and this points into the direction of
the new destination which is the intersection we're driving
towards and by multiplying it with completion rate,
we get the new position along the line which takes us directly
towards the destination intersection and then we are updating the position accordingly.
This here, this block here says,
once we have completed 90 percent of the street then we are going to significantly
slow down and we are setting this flag here to true which tells the system,
hey, here's a vehicle that is about to enter the intersection.
Once we have completed the total driving path or the total length of the street,
so a 100 percent of the street has been driven towards now or has been completed
now and has entered into dissection of flag is true,
we choose the next street and the destination,
simply pick it randomly.
You can look up the function query streets here.
It's a random pick process here.
Actually the random pick process happens here.
This queries the available streets.
Then in this block of code,
we select one street from all the available options by random
and then we set the randomly selected street with
next street on which the vehicle is going to be on.
The next thing which happens and this is your vehicle picks destination
and crosses the intersection on the left side in the diagram.
Then we set these values to be new destination, new street.
We readjust the speed,
we set it to the original value again by multiplying it by 10 and we say,
okay vehicle has left the intersection and then we reset
the stop watch which is the end of this code here.
Now let's move back to the main function to start up the simulation to see how it looks.
Maybe one last remark,
in intersection both in CPP and in.H, at this point in time
not much is happening.
We will make significant changes to both files in the next doesn't project but
for now as intersections are simply in-between points,
between streets which do not do anything.
We can have as many vehicles as we want driving through an intersection at the same time.
Currently, that's not much happening.
So we will exclude those for now.
Let's move to main.
In main, you can adjust the number of vehicles very
easily by changing the four to the six or two.
There's only one piece of advice I'd like to give to you.
Let's move up to the function, creates traffic objects.
As you can see here, we have six intersections now and seven streets.
Right down at the bottom,
this four loop here,
this basically adds a vehicle twos or this sets the current streets for a vehicle,
also the current destination intersection and this counting variable NV here.
This of course may not be larger than the number of streets which are available,
currently seven or the number of intersections available, currently six.
So by setting the number of vehicles to
something larger than six will at this point in time cause a crash.
You could include a small piece of code here which basically
limits the number of vehicles to the maximally available intersections or streets.
But for now, let's leave it with the advice.
If you turn this number here to something larger than six,
you're going to see a crash of the program.
Now let's start with two vehicles.
Let's run the code to see what happen.
As you can see, as for the slides you have seen before,
we have a number of vehicles moving through the city grid.
Currently there are two vehicles but you can easily
change this number as we have just discussed it.
So that's the walk-through through the current version of the court.
Have fun with the tasks in this lesson project and see you soon in the next lesson.